Review Chapter 1 - Till and Dominik (#146)
scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D: draft-dekater-scion-pki.md

**Base TRC**: A base TRC is a Trust Root Configuration (TRC) that other parties trust axiomatically. In other words, trust for a base TRC is assumed, not derived from another cryptographic object. ISD operators create and sign a base TRC when the ISD is established. A base TRC is either the first TRC of the ISD or the result of a trust reset.

**Control Plane PKI (CP-PKI)**: It is the Public Key Infrastructure upon which SCION's Control Plane relies for the authentication of messages. It is a set of policies, roles, and procedures that are used to manage Trust Root Configurations (TRCs) and certificates.

**Core AS**: Each Isolation Domain (ISD) is administered by a set of distinguished SCION Autonomous Systems (ASes) called Core ASes, which are responsible for initiating the path discovery and path construction process (called "beaconing" in SCION). Each ISD has at least one Core AS.

> **Grace Period**: The grace period is an interval during which the previous version of a Trust Root Configuration (TRC) is still considered active after a new version has been published.

Reviewer: I'm now unsure the Grace Period really needs to be here, this seems like oddly specific terminology. Maybe just remove it?

Reviewer 2: No hard feelings about this.. If we remove it from here, it appears in Figures 1 and 2 without any context or explanation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Isolation Domain (ISD)**: SCION ASes are organized into logical groups called Isolation Domains or ISDs. Each ISD consists of ASes that span an area with a uniform trust environment (e.g. a common jurisdiction).

**TRC Signing Ceremony**: The ceremony during which the very first base TRC of an ISD, called the initial TRC, is signed. The initial TRC is a special case of the base TRC where the number of the ISD is assigned.

**TRC Update**: A *regular* TRC update is a periodic re-issuance of the TRC where the entities and policies listed in the TRC remain unchanged. A *sensitive* TRC update is an update that modifies critical aspects of the TRC, such as the set of Core ASes. In both cases, the base TRC remains unchanged.

> **Trust Reset**: A trust reset is the action of announcing a new base TRC for an existing ISD, to mitigate a compromised TRC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Trust Reset**: A trust reset is the action of creating and announcing a new base TRC for an existing ISD, to mitigate a compromised TRC.
```

## Trust Relations within an Isolation Domain {#trust-relations}

The Control Plane PKI is organized at an ISD level whereby each ISD can independently specify its own Trust Root Configuration (TRC) and build its own verification chain. Each TRC consists of a collection of signed root certificates which are used to sign issuing CA certificates, which are in turn used to sign AS certificates. The TRC also includes ISD policies that specify, for example, the TRC's usage, validity, and future updates. The so-called **base TRC** constitutes the ISD's trust anchor which is signed during a Signing Ceremony by the Voting ASes and then distributed throughout the ISD.

While it is not necessary that all the ASes of the ISD trust each other, all ASes implicitly trust the ISD's Core ASes, Authoritative ASes, Voting ASes, as well as its CA(s).

### Updates and Trust Resets {#trust-reset}

> There are two types of TRC updates: regular and sensitive. The update type depends on which fields are changed (see [](#update)). In both cases the base TRC remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two types of TRC updates: regular and sensitive. The update type depends on which fields are changed (see [](#update)). In both cases the base TRC remains unchanged.
Authoritative ASes announce these TRC updates (see [](#auth)). 
```

- Trust agility (see further below);
- Resilience to single root of trust compromise;
- Multi-party governance; and
- Support for policy versioning and updates.

To fulfill these requirements, SCION introduces the concept of **Isolation Domains**. An Isolation Domain (ISD) is a building block to support heterogeneous trust while achieving high availability and scalability in its control plane ({{I-D.dekater-scion-controlplane}}). It consists of a logical grouping of SCION ASes that share a uniform trust environment (i.e. a common jurisdiction).

An ISD is governed by one or multiple ASes, known as the **Voting ASes**. Furthermore, each ISD has a set of ASes that form the ISD core, known as the **Core ASes**. The set of Core and Voting ASes may be, but do not necessarily have to be the same ASes. Governance is implemented by a policy called the **Trust Root Configuration** (TRC), which is negotiated by the Voting ASes and which defines the locally scoped roots of trust used to validate bindings between names and public keys.

> Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. An ISD's TRC is used for signatures pertaining to information originating from that ISD, such as paths, but for nothing originating outside of the ISD. This ISD-level scoping of trust roots enhances security by strictly limiting effect of a compromise to data originating from the compromised AS. 
An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.
```
Another attempt, trying to explain what is going on. 

And yes, we should avoid the term "blast radius", it is informal and not well defined. Also, in my opinion, the blast radius includes everyone that is affected, and that is everyone that has data (e.g. a path) that is related to the compromised AS.

Given the diverse nature of the constituents in the current Internet, an important challenge is how to scale authentication of network elements (such as AS ownership, hop-by-hop routing information, name servers for DNS, and domains for TLS) to the global environment. The roots of trust of currently prevalent Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) models do not scale well to a global environment because (1) mutually distrustful parties cannot agree on a single trust root (monopoly model), and because (2) the security of a plethora of roots of trust is only as strong as its weakest link (oligopoly model) - see also {{BARRERA17}}.

> The SCION trust architecture allows parties that mutually trust each other to form their own trust domain, and to freely decide whether to trust other trust domains. It therefore provides the following properties

Reviewer 2: I think this text is important to distinguish the PKI's trust model from other PKIs. We can reword it, but I would not delete it, otherwise we are missing some points that motivate SCION having its own PKI.

Reviewer 2: How about: 

> The monopoly model requires global consensus on a single root of trust, which introduces a single point of failure. The oligopoly model, conversely, utilizes multiple roots of trust that are typically afforded equal authority, introducing multiple potential points of vulnerability, as the compromise of any individual root can undermine the security of the broader ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: Saw your thumbs up, added in b4cc31a..26aadeb

> The SCION trust architecture allows parties that mutually trust each other to form their own trust domain, and to freely decide whether to trust other trust domains. It therefore provides the following properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCION trust architecture allows parties that mutually trust each other to form their own trust domain, and to freely decide which other trust domains should be trusted. It therefore provides the following properties:
```
I like this test (maybe with some changes if you like them). I don't think there is a need to define what we mean my monopoly/oligopoly if we never use these terms again. Using them just once sounds like we are trying to devalue other approaches, simply by giving them names with a a negative connotation.

- Trust agility (see further below);
- Resilience to single root of trust compromise;
- Multi-party governance; and
- Support for policy versioning and updates.

To fulfill these requirements, SCION introduces the concept of **Isolation Domains**. An Isolation Domain (ISD) is a building block to support heterogeneous trust while achieving high availability and scalability in its control plane ({{I-D.dekater-scion-controlplane}}). It consists of a logical grouping of SCION ASes that share a uniform trust environment (i.e. a common jurisdiction).

An ISD is governed by one or multiple ASes, known as the **Voting ASes**. Furthermore, each ISD has a set of ASes that form the ISD core, known as the **Core ASes**. The set of Core and Voting ASes may be, but do not necessarily have to be the same ASes. Governance is implemented by a policy called the **Trust Root Configuration** (TRC), which is negotiated by the Voting ASes and which defines the locally scoped roots of trust used to validate bindings between names and public keys.

> Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a version number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.

Reviewer 2: To address till's point: 
> Contradiction: "does not support certificate revocation" but 1.3 states "TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust"...?

```suggestion
Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a version number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used as an alternative to revocation in case of compromised roots of trust.
```

Reviewer 2: Changed in c3f43d3745cbf10e6f3e8f5c0ddae59adae70dc1

> An ISD is governed by one or multiple ASes, known as the **Voting ASes**. Furthermore, each ISD has a set of ASes that form the ISD core, known as the **Core ASes**. The set of Core and Voting ASes may be, but do not necessarily have to be the same ASes. Governance is implemented by a policy called the **Trust Root Configuration** (TRC), which is negotiated by the Voting ASes and which defines the locally scoped roots of trust used to validate bindings between names and public keys.

Reviewer: Also mention authorative ASes here?

Reviewer 2: Is it really relevant to the trust model? Or is it enough that we introduce them earlier in the terminology? 

IN the end, they are just a "distribution point" for TRC updates, so IMHO they don't really affect the trust model. No hard opinions on this

Reviewer 2: discussed and agreed to not mention them here (since TRC updates are later on).

Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a version number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.

> The TRC also provides *trust agility* - enabling users to select the trust roots used to initiate certificate validation. This implies that users are free to choose an ISD they believe maintains an uncompromised set of trust roots. ISD members can also decide whether to trust other ISDs and thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network. The SCION trust model therefore, differs from the one provided by other PKI architectures.

Reviewer 2: > The TRC also provides *trust agility* - enabling users to select the trust roots used to initiate certificate validation. This implies that ASes are free to choose one or more ISDs they believe maintain an uncompromised set of trust roots. ASes can thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network, which differs from trust models provided by other PKI architectures.

This new wording does not work. The old text was clearly talking about users selecting trust roots for a reason. It was conveying that users (or better - endpoints) send traffic through ASes that are only in trusted ISDs (depending on which TRCs are provisioned on the endpoint). I would stick to the old wording here.

> ASes are free to choose one or more ISDs 

Also, in the spec, there is no such thing. An AS in two ISD is two different ISD-ASes tuples, two different CP instances, etc..

Reviewer: I agree that something got lost. 

> > ASes are free to choose one or more ISDs

> Also, in the spec, there is no such thing. An AS in two ISD is two different ISD-ASes tuples, two different CP instances, etc..

I'm not sure how that contradicts the original statement. I'd say `ASes are free to choose one or more ISDs, subject to available connectivity.`. That they need multiple CS seems more like a detail to me, it's not explicitly mentioned in the CP/DP, but it is also not forbidden. 
However, this is the PKI draft, and on the PKI level, joining multiple ASes is not a problem, or maybe I am mistaken?

Obviously I'm aiming to have this compatible with Private ISDs... :)

Reviewer 2: Let's briefly discuss tomorrow

Reviewer 2: So the wording about "Trust agility" was introduced in the very first version of the draft: 
https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/commit/206d8496c13d9eff8589612d905e0885067c8d5e back in Aug 2022 
This was in [-00](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-dekater-scion-pki/00/)

This was also in the internal early draft ([link](https://github.com/scionassociation/standards/commit/afc57f7aeea272222e9805a3b6724beeb0e12f28))

Reviewer 2: - Do users/endpoints need provisioned TRCs to be able to do inter-ISD path loookups? If yes, they can really select roots of trust.. If not, they can't, but they can use path policies to select ISDs..

We need to find a good angle to this trust agility story. Either explain why, or skip on it. 
Till thinks it is a reference to EPIC. I cannot find it in the book or in the SCION docs.. I want to do more research to find where it comes form

Reviewer: TRCs are required for path validation. If an AS receives a path, it should validate the path with remote TRCs. So this trust agility essentially boils down to the ability to chose paths through ISD you trust and avoid paths through ISDs you don't trust.

Reviewer 2: Ok, so can we restore something closer to the older wording:

> This implies that users are free to choose an ISD they believe maintains an uncompromised set of trust roots. ISD members can also decide whether to trust other ISDs and thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network. The SCION trust model therefore, differs from the one provided by other PKI architectures.

Reviewer 2: Asked for more opinions on [Slack](https://scionproto.slack.com/archives/C8ADA9CEP/p1780045194860189)

Reviewer 2: Since we are not reaching an agreement about this, I'll merge this PR and opened https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/issues/159 to keep track of this point

> The need for trust agility also means that SCION does not by design provide IP prefix origin validation as provided by RPKI {{RFC8210}}. RPKI's trust model is currently reliant on the trust roots provided by the five Regional Internet Registries, and therefore outside of the governance of an ISD.

Reviewer 2: Why remove this? It is a recurring question and it was also requested by a reviewer
https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/issues/39

Reviewer 2: This is what @tzaeschke said in the issue: 

> Remove last sentence with comparison to other PKIs, this sounds like unbacked advertisement.
 
 However we need this to orient readers that are searching for RPKI

Reviewer: -> I was refering to the last sentence of the previous paragraph: `The SCION trust model therefore, differs from the one provided by other PKI architectures.`.

Reviewer 2: I'd still like to add the reference to RPKI back in. How about: 

> To achieve trust agility, SCION avoids global PKIs such as the RPKI {{RFC8210}} where trust roots are provided by the Regional Internet Registries. Instead, 
in the CP-PKI, each ISD has its own trust root. Note that SCION does not provide IP prefix origin validation.

Old wording: 
> 
The need for trust agility also means that SCION does not by design provide IP prefix origin validation as provided by RPKI [RFC8210]. RPKI's trust model is currently reliant on the trust roots provided by the five Regional Internet Registries, and therefore outside of the governance of an ISD.

Reviewer 2: Re-added this wording above in 9ba7815

> Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.

Reviewer: `Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as compromise of a private key associated with a trust root cannot be used to forge a certificate outside the ISD.`

I'm not entirely sure, but certificates _are_ used outside of an ISD, e.g. when you want to communicate with an ISD?

Reviewer 2: I think we should reword to clarify that the "blast radius" of a compromised root or CA cert is limited to ASes within an ISD (and does not affect ASes in other ISDs)

```suggestion
Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. Such scoping of trust roots within an ISD improves security as the impact of a compromised root or issuing CA certificate  is limited to within the affected ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.
```

Reviewer 2: Other wording attempt:

```suggestion
Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. This ISD-level scoping of trust roots enhances security by strictly limiting the blast radius of a compromise. If a root or issuing CA is compromised, it is restricted to issuing certificates solely for ASes residing within the affected ISD. An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used to efficiently revoke compromised roots of trust.
```

Author: Blast radius is a colloquialism that should't be used in a formal document (usually of course you're referring to military doctrine). "Strictly limiting the impact of a compromise" would be a better turn of phrase.

Reviewer 2: Used Till's proposal in [a9533f7](https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/pull/146/commits/a9533f7884febc9d145460a657b74069a4dc52a0)

> There are two types of TRC updates: regular and sensitive (see [](#update)). A **regular TRC update** is a periodic re-issuance of the TRC where the entities and policies listed in the TRC remain unchanged, whereas a **sensitive TRC update** is an update that modifies critical aspects of the TRC, such as the set of Core ASes. In both cases the base TRC remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: Till suggested that this text is redundant. How about shortening it:
```suggestion
There are two types of TRC updates: regular and sensitive. The update type depends on which fields are changed (see [](#update)). In both cases the base TRC remains unchanged.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

> While it is not necessary that all the ASes of the ISD trust each other, all ASes implicitly trust the ISD's Core ASes, Authoritative ASes, Voting ASes, as well as its CA(s).

Reviewer 2: @oncilla commented in #149: 

> I wonder if we need to distinguish the level of trust that we need to have in these entities. For the CP-PKI, we do not really need to trust Core or Autoritative ASes. CAs and Voters need to be trusted though.

So how about: 

 
```suggestion
While it is not necessary that all the ASes of the ISD trust each other, within the CP-PKI all ASes implicitly trust the ISD's Voting ASes, as well as its CA(s).
```

> If the ISD's base TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy) when a new base TRC is created.

Reviewer 2: No, a trust reset is necessary if any TRC is compromised, not just a base TRC
```suggestion
If the ISD's TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy) when a new base TRC is created.
```

Reviewer: @nicorusti  If I understand section 1.4.1. correctly, a reset is only required for base TRC.

Reviewer 2: the cause of the the reset is _any_ compromised TRC. So we have to say:

> If the ISD's ~base~ TRC has been compromised

 The result is a new _base_ TRC.

### Substitutes to Certificate Revocation {#substitutes-to-revocation}

> The Control Plane PKI does not explicitly support certificate revocation. Instead it relies on the regular and sensitive TRC update mechanisms on short-lived certificates. This approach constitutes an alternative to a revocation system for the following reasons:

Reviewer 2: This text does not make sense, how about

```suggestion
The Control Plane PKI does not explicitly support certificate revocation. Instead it relies on the TRC update mechanism and on short-lived certificates. This approach constitutes an alternative to a revocation system for the following reasons:
```

Reviewer: Maybe this was referring to "trust reset" and "update" as the two mechanisms?

Reviewer 2: There are 3 mechanisms in total: 
- TRC updates and trust resets
- Short lived certificates

Reviewer 2: How about: 
```suggestion
The Control Plane PKI does not explicitly support certificate revocation. Instead it relies on the TRC update mechanism, on trust resets, and  on short-lived certificates. This approach constitutes an alternative to a revocation system for the following reasons:
```

Reviewer: LGTM

Authentication in SCION is based on X.509 certificates that bind identifiers to public keys and carry digital signatures that are verified by roots of trust. SCION allows each ISD to define its own set of trust roots, along with the policy governing their use. An ISD's TRC is used for signatures pertaining to information originating from that ISD, such as paths, but for nothing originating outside of the ISD. This ISD-level scoping of trust roots enhances security by strictly limiting effect of a compromise to data originating from the compromised AS.
An ISD's trust roots and policy are encoded in the TRC, which has a base and serial number, a list of public keys that serves as root of trust for various purposes, and a voting quorum governing the number of signatures required to update TRCs. The TRC serves as a way to bootstrap all authentication within SCION. Additionally, TRC versioning is used as an alternative to revocation in case of compromised roots of trust.

> The TRC also provides *trust agility* - enabling users to select the trust roots used to initiate certificate validation. This implies that ASes are free to choose one or more ISDs they believe maintain an uncompromised set of trust roots. ASes can thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network, which differs from trust models provided by other established PKI architectures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TRC also provides *trust agility* - enabling users to select the trust roots used to initiate certificate validation (e.g., to verify path segments). This implies that users are free to choose an ISD they believe maintains an uncompromised set of trust roots. Furthermore, AS member ASes of an ISD can decide whether to trust other ISDs and thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network. The SCION trust model therefore, differs from the one provided by other PKI architectures.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm restoring the earlier wording and deferring this to a dedicated issue

```suggestion
The TRC also provides *trust agility* - enabling users to select the trust roots used to initiate certificate validation. This implies that users are free to choose an ISD they believe maintains an uncompromised set of trust roots. ISD members can also decide whether to trust other ISDs and thus transparently define trust relationships between parts of the network. The SCION trust model therefore, differs from the one provided by other PKI architectures.
```

## Trust Relations within an Isolation Domain {#trust-relations}

The Control Plane PKI is organized at an ISD level whereby each ISD can independently specify its own Trust Root Configuration (TRC) and build its own verification chain. Each TRC consists of a collection of signed root certificates which are used to sign issuing CA certificates, which are in turn used to sign AS certificates. The TRC also includes ISD policies that specify, for example, the TRC's usage, validity, and future updates. The so-called **base TRC** constitutes the ISD's trust anchor which is signed during a Signing Ceremony by the Voting ASes and then distributed throughout the ISD.

While it is not necessary that all the ASes of the ISD trust each other, within the CP-PKI all ASes implicitly trust the ISD's Voting ASes, as well as its CA(s).

### Updates and Trust Resets {#trust-reset}

There are two types of TRC updates: regular and sensitive. The update type depends on which fields are changed (see [](#update)). In both cases the base TRC remains unchanged.
Authoritative ASes announce these TRC updates (see [](#auth)).

> If the ISD's TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy) when a new base TRC is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ISD's TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy). In this case, a new base TRC is created.
```
Why was this changed? If I understand correctly, `a new base TRC is created` when a trust reset is initiated, not the other way around?

Reviewer 2: It was some rewording by Kevin in https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/commit/c5d33d8426b2111243b3feda54dd48a0e38266cd

> If the ISD's TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy) when a new base TRC is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ISD's TRC has been compromised, it is necessary for an ISD to re-establish the trust root. This is possible with a process called **trust reset** (if permitted by the ISD's trust policy). In this case, a new base TRC is created. See also [](#compromise-of-an-isd).
```
Section 6.1.1 explains when a trust reset is required and how it works. Maybe this part of section 6.1.1 should actually be moved here? Or to section 3.5?

Reviewer 2: Since this affects 3 sections, let me deal with it in a later PR https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/issues/158

~~~aasvg

               +----------------------------------------+

>                |               TRC (iD=2)               |

Reviewer 3: shouldn't this be serialNumber, rather than iD?

Reviewer 2: Yes 
```suggestion
               |         TRC (serialNumber =2)          |
```

~~~aasvg
+----------------------------------------------+

> |                  TRC (id=1)                  |

Reviewer 3: ditto (but it is also redundant because initial implies serialNumber == 1)

| | - ID               - Description         | |
| | - Validity         - No Trust Reset      | |
| | - Grace Period     - Voting Quorum       | |

> | | - SerialNumber: 1  - ...                 | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | - SerialNumber     - ...                 | |
| | - ...                                    | |
```

Reviewer 2: This was introduced to address @oncilla's feedback in #149: 

> For TRC you should generally talk about serial and base numbers as to not confuse the reader. I think here, I would replace version number with serial number and gloss over the base number.

I didn't know where else to squeeze "1" in the figure :(

| | - ID               - Description         | |
| | - Validity         - No Trust Reset      | |
| | - Grace Period     - Voting Quorum       | |

> | | - SerialNumber: 1  - ...                 | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | - SerialNumber     - "1", e.g. for TRC 1 | |
| | - ...                                    | |
```
I think the `1` is in the header. Otherwise, how about this?

Reviewer 2: Right, 1 is actually in the iD.SerialNumner field. I added it back on top in 84c2704936dd6f290185b3a71f34d04957e30460 , since there  is some space:

It looks good enough in both TXT and SVG
<img width="376" height="201" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-28 at 09 57 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f0acdfb7-7c8e-4ab6-887f-bc4f3998e8c0" />
<img width="522" height="387" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-28 at 09 57 27" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e2a68cc8-c9cd-4379-9485-11349fcfe530" />
<img width="646" height="729" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-28 at 09 58 04" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3802cae-8c7f-49f5-a38c-867b51a7f1ea" />
<img width="505" height="369" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-28 at 09 58 19" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5979a4f8-cc4f-47fc-b491-1c3227a658cd" />
